356 -’ LoercAi, ANALYSIs OF THE

*brought on his way into Spain :—‘ before however I depart, or be
brought by you on my way into Spain, I shall be satisfied with your
company :² which satisfaction from his company with them, he in-
deed again corrects, when he adds—“ in part ;'' thus intimating—
‘ that our joy from company with each other, yea, even that which
springs from mutual comfort, and the bestowal of the grace of the
gospel, shall not be fully, but only somewhat satisfied, so long as
w'e are together here on the earth.'

s 25. “But now I journey to J erusalem.'’ This is a second illus·
tration of the promise, from his present journeying in the contrary
direction: ‘ I now take my journey, not towards the west, or into
Spain, so as to see you now in this journeying ς but contrariwise,
towards the east, or to Jerusalem! ‘⁶ Ministering to the saints.'’
This is an illustration of his present journeying, from its end, which
is-—⁴ to minister to the saints! Moreover ‘⁶ to minister to the
saints'' here is—‘ to convey, for the necessary uses of the saints,
the subsidy which had been contributed and collected among the
Gentile churches, for the relief of the necessity of the saints at
Jerusalem, and throughout all Judea3' to which the prophecyi‘of
Agabus concerning the dearth which was to happen in the world
(Acts xi. 28, 29, 30), gave occasio‘n. There seems to be a double
reason for the contribution by the Gentiles of this subsidy for the
ῃ believing J ews. The first is z—that that chastisement, or want of
necessaries, in Judea, was greatly aggravated by the hatred of their
fellow-countr-ymen who did not believe, and who, notwithstanding,
viZ. shortly before the final destruction of Jerusalem, drove · the
believers to such necessity, that they were forced to retire, and
banished from their homes 3 which happened to the J ewish church-
within forty years after Christ. This necessity—which was first of
all to light upon the churches of the Jews, and which was an«

. nounced by the Jews to the churches of the Gentiles, as soon as it

‘had been made known to the former from God—-seems to have
given-,occasion .to.this subsidy. The second reason, is :ssthe >nand
knowledgment of the ,benefit on account of which theapostle'aft'eri

