EPISTLE OF PAUL To THE ROMANs. 131

that he may briefly shew-—both that the inheritance is not to be
procuret] by our own sufferings, and yet that for the sake of it we
ought most gladly to suffer anything : so that, in the same breath,
he both overthrows the merit of our sufferings, and encourages us
to suffer. In these wordS, therefore, he first of all refutes the
idea of our sufferings being meritorious, by contradicting the
objection——‘ I hold that the inheritance is not to be procured by
our own sufferings ς’ the argument for which, taken, as has been
already said, from a comparison of inequality between our suffer-
ings and the inheritance or grace to be revealed, runs thus :—

‘ All the sufferings of this life are not equal to that inheritance
nor worthy of it ε

‘ Therefore the inheritance is' not procured by sufferings.'

The force of the consequence depends upon the self-evident and
obvious axiom—‘ that wages cannot be merited unless the work or
suffering shall have been equal to and worthy of the wages? This
is implied in the words of the apostle above, at chap. iv. 4,—“ to
him that worketh the reward is imputed from debt,'' as much as
to say—‘ unless the wages be due, and the work equa] to and wor-
thy of the reward, the reward is not given for the work 3' and the
same thing may be said of sufferings : our sufferings and works
therefore, merit nothing, nothing is procured by them, unless they
be worthy ( ἀξια, as the apostle here speaks) of the reward. To
this, which is the general proposition, and sufficiently obvious,
according to the apostle, he here subjoins the assumption—‘ that
the sufferings of this life are not equal to the inheritance or glory
to be revealed :’ whence he teaches us to conclude, as he himself
has done before—‘ that the inheritance is from grace, and not from
debt nor procured by our own sufferings? The idea of our suffer-
ings being meritorious having been thus overthrown, the apostle,
nevertheless, encourages us to suffer for the inheritance, and he
does so by the same argument in this way :—

‘ 1 hold,' that is, ‘ every thing having ‘been duly considered, I
conclude, that all our sufferings in the present life are unequal to,

less than, and unworthy of the glory to be revealed in us, or that
1 2 ¹

