EDITOR's PltEFACE. vii

a task of no small toil. The MS. though beautifully executod, was
written, the transcriber tells us, in the space of eight days, and is
consequently full of contractione which have occasionally severely
exercised the patience and ingenuity both of compositor and of cor-
rector. The punctuation also had been but little attended to, and,
inconsequence of this, the author’s meaning was often rendered
obscure or uncertain. In one or two instances errors have evi-
dently been committed by the transcriber or by the author, as the
construction is faulty, or the latinitj inadmissible 3 but these
are rare. Amid such a multitude of corrections as Ι have had to
make on every sheet, I cannot hope to have so perfectly fulfilled
my editorial functions as to issue an immaculate edition3 but I
trust such errors as may have been allowed to remain will be found
to be trivial and not such as at all to impede the reader. I can
certify for myself and the printer, that no pains have been spared
by us to render the work as correct as possible3 and I hope if any
blemishes are found by the critical reader, he will. remember the
difficulties with which we have had to contend‚ and not be offend-
ed with a few blots‚ “ quas [non] incuria fudit, [sed] humana parum
cavit natura.” 1 trust also that the Members of the Wodrow
Society will accept of the apology which the manifold impediments
of such an undertaking furnish for the delay which has occurred

in the issuing of this volume.

W. L. A.

Pmmnnmm,
lst Marclz 1850.

